# What the new House speaker means for government shutdown odds and the markets
**Yun Li**

**2023-10-26 14:43**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/26/what-the-new-house-speaker-means-for-government-shutdown-odds-and-the-markets.html**

After three weeks without a speaker, House Republicans finally handed the gavel to Mike Johnson of Louisiana on Wednesday. The move could have crucial implications for a looming government-funding deadline next month as well as other issues, according to Wall Street strategists. The new House speaker arrives as lawmakers have been unable to pass spending legislation — with a Nov. 17 deadline nearing. Congress also couldn't pass emergency security assistance for Israel and Ukraine. The consensus on Wall Street is that Johnson would back short-term funding to avoid a mid-November shutdown, delaying decisions on bigger spending bills to January or later in 2024. Many strategists think that challenges will remain next year for Johnson to get any larger funding bill over the finish line, however. "Johnson is not signaling any retreat from the House GOP push for deeper cuts to domestic spending than the levels agreed to in the debt ceiling deal, so the inevitable collision remains," Tobin Marcus, head of U.S. policy and politics at Wolfe Research, said in a note. Continuing resolution Johnson said in his letter to House colleagues this week that he's open to passing another continuing resolution through Jan. 15 or April 15 to give the legislative body more time to establish a negotiating position on spending bills with the Senate. "With a newly elected speaker, it seems likely that House Republicans will press to cut spending by up to $120bn, which will make a longer-term spending deal difficult," Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a note. Earlier this fall, Johnson voted against the short-term spending legislation that is keeping the government open until November. "We think this mostly serves to delay rather than eliminate the shutdown threat, as maximalist tactics will remain on the table when the time comes for final negotiations with the Senate over full-year funding levels," Marcus said. Ukraine funding Another pressing issue is President Joe Biden's $106 billion defense supplemental request, on which Johnson has not signaled a clear position. Some are in the view that Johnson could make it difficult to get additional funding for Ukraine. Johnson has voted against aid for Ukraine in the past. He said earlier this month the U.S. needs to take urgent action to support Israel, and the House should "take all necessary action to end Hamas forever." "Ukraine funding has bipartisan support, but it faces key opposition on the House including from the new Speaker," Brian Gardner, Stifel's chief Washington policy strategist, said in a note. "The Biden administration and the Senate appear to agree on bundling aid for Ukraine, Israel, and additional border funding into a single package," Gardner said. "We expect Mr. Johnson and House Republicans will try to unbundle the proposal." Johnson is taking over as House speaker as the stocks market struggles. The Nasdaq Composite entered correction territory this week, falling more than 10% from this year's high. The S & P 500 closed on Wednesday at its lowest level since late May. — CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed reporting.