# Here's what we think about Ford stock after tentative UAW deal and ahead of earnings
**Jeff Marks**

**2023-10-26 16:16**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/26/heres-what-we-think-about-ford-stock-after-tentative-uaw-deal-and-ahead-of-earnings.html**

Every weekday the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer holds a "Morning Meeting" livestream at 10:20 a.m. ET. Here's a recap of Thursday's key moments. 1. Stocks were having another down day, led lower again by the mega-cap tech names. Jim Cramer said Thursday it's the S & P Oscillator pointing to an oversold market versus better-than-expected GDP in the third quarter, which could raise Fed interest rate hike concerns. Bond yields are OK on Thursday. Oil was down 2%. We've been sticking with our discipline in an oversold market and putting small amounts of money into great companies that we believe in long term. 2. Jim said, if not restricted, he would make a stand on Club name Meta Platforms (META) right here. He said he would buy 50 shares right now, if he could, and 50 more shares if the stock were to fall to $220. We upgraded Meta back to our 1 rating . By late morning, Meta shares were not down as much as earlier. The stock was having a rough time after a solid quarter but some guidance concerns. However, Meta was still up roughly 140% year to date. 3. Club name Ford (F) is set to report earnings after the closing bell Thursday. Like, General Motors (GM), third-quarter results are expected to be OK. But all anyone will care about is the tentative agreement that Ford and the UAW reached, and how much the six-week strike has cost Ford. We're also interested in what Ford has to say about balancing making money on internal combustion engine vehicles and hybrid vehicles against investing in fully electric vehicles, a division that's been losing money. Jim said he would not buy Ford in the dip at this point. Let's see what the company says Thursday evening. (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long META, F. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.