# Stocks making the biggest moves after hours: Intel, Amazon, Chipotle, Enphase Energy and more
**Lisa Kailai Han**

**2023-10-26 21:53**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/26/stocks-making-the-biggest-moves-after-hours-intc-amzn-cmg-enph.html**

Check out the companies making headlines after the bell : Amazon — The e-commerce giant's shares were roughly flat. Amazon issued fourth-quarter sales guidance ranging between $160 billion to $167 billion, while analysts polled by LSEG called for revenue of $166.6 billion. Amazon beat analysts' forecasts on the top and bottom lines in the third quarter. Intel — The stock traded more than 7% higher in post-market hours after the semiconductor chip manufacturer beat third-quarter earnings . Intel earned 41 cents per share, adjusted, on $14.16 billion in revenue, while analysts polled by LSEG had expected 22 cents per share in earnings and revenue at $13.53 billion. Ford — Shares of the automaker tumbled more than 4% after Ford missed consensus third-quarter earnings expectations . Ford posted adjusted earnings of 39 cents per share on $41.18 billion of revenue, lower than the 45 cents per share on $41.22 billion of revenue analysts polled by LSEG were expecting. Chipotle Mexican Grill — The burrito chain gained more than 2% in extended trading on the back of earnings results that beat what Wall Street was expecting, based on a survey of analysts by LSEG. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $11.36 versus the $10.55 per share expected, while revenue fell in line with expectations at $2.47 billion. Capital One — The financial services firm advanced about 4% in extended trading on better-than-expected third-quarter results. Earnings per share came in at $4.45 versus the $3.24 per share expected by analysts polled by FactSet. Net interest income came in at $9.37 billion, also beating the $7.28 billion consensus. Dexcom — Shares gained nearly 15% after the company, which manufacturers medical devices for diabetics, beat earnings expectations for its third quarter. Dexcom posted 50 cents in adjusted earnings per share and $975 million in revenue. Analysts polled by FactSet expected earnings of 34 cents per share and revenue at $939.6 million. Deckers Outdoor — The manufacturer of Ugg boots and Hoka sneakers rose 10% in after-hours trading. Deckers forecasted full-year earnings per share to range between $22.90 to $23.25 on revenue of $4.025 billion. Analysts polled by LSEG called for $22.64 in earnings per share and $4.015 billion in revenue. The company also beat Wall Street's estimates on top and bottom lines in its fiscal second quarter. Enphase Energy — The solar power stock plunged 17% after Enphase Energy issued weak guidance. The company anticipates fourth-quarter revenue will range between $300 million and $350 million, while the Street called for $584 million, per LSEG. Revenue for the third quarter fell short of analysts' estimates, but adjusted earnings came in one cent ahead of what Wall Street expected. — CNBC's Darla Mercado contributed reporting.